Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) is a way to use electricity to control analog devices using a digital signal. By changing the pulse width, we change the average amount of voltage seen
by circuit. While a signal will always be either at a high (digital 1) or low (digital 0) value, the proportion of time that 
the signal is high can be altered. The two prominent components of a PWM signal are - a duty cycle and a frequency. 

The duty cycle describes the amount of time the signal is high as a percentage of the total time of it takes to complete one cycle. 
The frequency is how fast the PWM completes a cycle i.e. how fast it switches between high and low states. 

When we cycle a digital signal off and on at a fast enough speed and with a certain duty cycle, the output appears like a constant voltage 
analog signal when providing power to devices, this has several applications. 

Applications : 
1) When we pulse the power supply on and off at a certain frequency and with a certain pulse width, we can control the brightness of lighting such as 
standard bulbs or LEDs by adjusting the duty cycle. With an RGB LED, you can control how much of each of the three colors you want by 
dimming them by various amounts.

2) Power electronic Applications : We can even control the speed of motors using PWM.
It also allows us to make very efficient power supplies such a step up, steup down and regulated i.e. switch mode power supplies. The switch mode in the name
refers to the pulse width modulation techniques. 

3)Communication applications : Since the PWM signal remains digital all the way from the processor to the controlled system; no digital-to-analog conversion is necessary. 
Since the signal is kept digital, noise is minimized.  PWM signals provide enhanced noise immunity and so are preferred over analog control signals, and 
that is why it is used for communication. Switching from an analog signal to PWM can increase the length of a communications channel dramatically.

4)The motherboard of our computers also uses PWM signals to run its fan with power pulses.If PWM is not used and power is continuousely 
provided, then it may cause a severe harm to the board, as the board will run with full speed without any pause. 
